难易程度:诗名:bilibili链接:诗英文名:作者名:作者英文名:诗的种类:诗的背景:中文版:英文版
2:蝉::To The Cicada:虞世南:Yu Shinan:4::垂緌饮清露，流响出疏桐，居高声自远，非是藉秋风。:Though rising high, you drink but dew; Yet your voice flows from sparse plane trees; Far and wide there's none but hears you; You need no wings of autumn breeze.
2:咏萤::To The Firefly:虞世南:Yu Shinan:4::的历流光小，飘飖弱翅轻，恐畏无人识，独自暗中明。:Flickering, you shed a green light; Wafting weak wings, you flit in flight; Being afraid to be unknown; In the darkness you gleam alone.
2:落叶::Falling Leaves:孔绍安:Kong Shao'an:4::早秋惊落叶，飘零似客心，翻飞未肯下，犹言惜故林。:In early autumn I'm sad to see falling leaves; They're dreary like a roamer's heart which their fall grieves; They twist and twirl as if struggling against the breeze; I seem to hear them cry, "We will not leave our trees".
2:过酒家::The Wineshop:王绩:Wang Ji:0::此日长昏饮，非关养性灵，眼看人尽醉，何忍独为醒。:Drinking wine all day long; I won't keep my mind sane; Seeing the drunken throng; Could I sober remain?
3:南行别弟::Parting With My Younger Brother:韦承庆:Wei Chengqing:1::澹澹长江水，悠悠远客情，落花相与恨，到地一无声。:The long, long river coolly flows; My parting sorrow endless grows; Our grief is shared by falling blooms; In their silence our sorrow looms.
3:渡汉江::Crossing River Han:宋之问:Song Zhiwen:0::岭外音书断，经冬复历春，近乡情更怯，不敢问来人。:I longed for news on the frontier; From day to day, from year to year; Now nearing home, timid I grow; I dare not ask what I would know.
2:咏柳::The Willow:贺知章:He Zhizhang:4::碧玉妆成一树高，万条垂下绿丝绦，不知细叶谁裁出，二月春风似剪刀。:The slender tree is dressed in emerald all about; A thousand branches droop like fringes made of jade; But do you know by whom these slim leaves are cut out; The wind of early spring is sharp as scissor blade.
2:登幽州台歌::On The Tower At YouZhou:陈子昂:Chen Zi'ang:4::前不见古人，后不见来者，念天地之悠悠，独怆然而涕下！:Where are the great men of the past; And where are those of future years; The sky and earth forever last; Here and now I alone shed tears.
3:蜀道后期::My Delayed Departure For Home:张说:Zhang Yue:0::客心争日月，来往预期程，秋风不相待，先至洛阳城。:My heart outruns the moon and sun; It makes the journey not begun; The autumn wind won't wait for me; It arrives there where I would be.
2:自君之出矣::Since My Lord From Me Parted:张九龄:Zhang Jiuling:1::自君之出矣，不复理残机，思君如满月，夜夜减清辉。:Since my lord from me parted; I've left unused my loom; The moon wanes, broken-hearted; To see my growing gloom.
3:山中留客::To A Guest In The Hills:张旭:Zhang Xu:1::山光物态弄春晖，莫为轻阴便拟归，纵使晴明无雨色，入云深处亦沾衣。:On all things in the hills spring sheds a golden light; Do not go back when some dark rain clouds come in sight; Even on a fine day when the sun's shining bright; Your gown will moisten still in the thick of clouds white.
2:凉州词::Starting For The Front:王翰:Wang Han:4::葡萄美酒夜光杯，欲饮琵琶马上催，醉卧沙场君莫笑，古来征战几人回？:With wine of grapes the cups of jade would glow at night; Drinking to pipa songs, we are summoned to fight; Don't laugh if we lay drunken on the battleground; How many warriors ever came back safe and sound?
2:登鹳雀楼::On The Stork Tower:王之涣:Wang Zhihuan:3::白日依山尽，黄河入海流，欲穷千里目，更上一层楼。:The sun along the mountain bows; The Yellow River seawards flows; You will enjoy a grander sight; If you climb to a greater height.
2:凉州词::Out Of The Great Wall:王之涣:Wang Zhihuan:3::黄河远上白云间，一片孤城万仞山，羌笛何须怨杨柳，春风不度玉门关。:The Yellow River rises to the white cloud;The lonely town is lost amid the mountains proud;Why should the Mongol flute complain no willows grow;Beyond the Gate of Jade no vernal wind will blow.
1:春晓:av36925321?p=4:Spring Morning:孟浩然:Meng Haoran:3::春眠不觉晓，处处闻啼鸟，夜来风雨声，花落知多少。:This spring morning in bed I'm lying;Not to awake till birds are crying;After one night of wind and showers;How many are fallen flowers.
2:宿建德江::Mooring On The River At JianDe:孟浩然:Meng Haoran:3::移舟泊烟渚，日暮客愁新，野旷天低树，江清月近人。:My  boat is moored near an isle in mist grey;I'm grieved anew to see the parting day;On boundless plain trees seem to scrape the sky;In water clear the moon appeals so high.
3:从军行七首（选二）其四::Army Life(IV):王昌龄:Wang Changling:2::青海长云暗雪山，孤城遥望玉门关，黄沙百战穿金甲，不破楼兰终不还。:Clouds on frontier o'er shadow mountains clad in snow;A lonely town afar faces Pass of Jade Gate;Our golden armor pierced by sand, we fight the foe;We won't come back till we destroy the hostile state.
3:从军行七首（选二）其五::Army Life(V):王昌龄:Wang Changling:2::大漠风尘日色昏，红旗半卷出辕门，前军夜战洮河北，已报生擒吐谷浑。:The wind and sand in the desert have dimmed sunlight;With red flags half unfurled we go through the camp gate;North of the River Tao, after nocturnal fight;Our vanguards capture the chieftain of hostile state.
2:出塞::On The Frontier:王昌龄:Wang Changling:2::秦时明月汉时关，万里长征人未还，但使龙城飞将在，不教胡马度阴山。:The moon still shines on mountain passes as of yore;How many guardsmen of the Great Wall are no more;If the flying general were still there in command;No hostile steeds would have dared to invade our land.
3:西宫秋怨::A Neglected Beauty In The West Palace:王昌龄:Wang Changling:0::芙蓉不及美人妆，水殿风来珠翠香，却恨含情掩秋扇，空悬明月待君王。:The lotus bloom feels shy beside the lady fair;The breeze across the lake takes fragrance from her hair;An autumn fan cannot conceal her hidden love;In vain she waits for her lord with the moon above.
3:长信秋词::A Disfavored Court Lady In Autumn:王昌龄:Wang Changling:0::奉帚平明金殿开，且将团扇共徘徊，玉颜不及寒鸦色，犹带昭阳日影来。:At dawn she brings her broom to dust the golden halls;She lingers with a fan within the palace walls;Her rosy color envies wintry crows' black one;Oft bathed in favorable light of royal sun.
2:闺怨::Sorrow Of A Younc Bride In Her Boudoir:王昌龄:Wang Changling:0::闺中少妇不知愁，春日凝妆上翠楼，忽见枝头杨柳色，悔教夫婿觅封侯。:The young bride in her boudoir does not know what grieves;She mounts the tower, gaily dressed, on a spring day;Suddenly seeing by roadside green willow leaves;How she regrets her lord seeking fame far away!
2:芙蓉楼送辛渐::Farewell To Xin Jian At Lotus Tower:王昌龄:Wang Changling:1::寒雨连江夜入吴，平明送客楚山孤，洛阳亲友如相问，一片冰心在玉壶。:A cold rain mingled with East Stream invades the night;At dawn you leave the Southern hills lonely in haze;If my friends in the North should ask if I'm all right;My heart is free of stain as ice in crystal vase.
3:终南忘积雪::Snow Atop Southern Mountains:祖咏:Zu Yong:3::终南阴岭秀，积雪浮云端，林表明霁色，城中增暮寒。:How fair the gloomy mountainside;Snow-crowned peaks float above the cloud;The forest bright in sunset dyed;With evening cold the town's o'er flowed.
3:孟城坳::The City Gate:王维:Wang Wei:3::新家孟城口，古木余衰柳，来者复为谁，空悲昔人有。:I've moved in near the city gate;Where withered willow trees are left;Should another move here too late;Alas! of trees he'd be bereft.
2:鹿柴::The Deer Enclosure:王维:Wang Wei:3::空山不见人，但闻人语响，返景入深林，复照青苔上。:In pathless hills no man's in sight;But I still hear echoing sound;In gloomy forest peeps no light;But sunbeams slant on mossy ground.
2:竹里馆::The Bamboo Hut:王维:Wang Wei:0::独坐幽篁里，弹琴复长啸，深林人不知，明月来相照。:Sitting among bamboos alone;I play my lute and croon carefree;In the deep woods where I'm unknown;Only the bright moon peeps at me.
2:鸟鸣涧::The Dale Of Singing Birds:王维:Wang Wei:4::人闲桂花落，夜静春山空，月出惊山鸟，时鸣春涧中。:Sweet laurel blooms fall unenjoyed;Vague hills dissolve into night void;The moonrise startles birds to sing;Their twitter fills the dale with spring.
2:山中送别::Parting In The Hills:王维:Wang Wei:1::山中相送罢，日暮掩柴扉，春草明年绿，王孙归不归。:I see off the hills my compeer;At dusk I close my wicket door;When grass turns green in spring next year;Will my friend come with spring once more?
2:杂诗::Our Native Place:王维:Wang Wei:3::君自故乡来，应知故乡事，来日倚窗前，寒梅著花未？:You come from native place;What happened there you'd know;Did mume blossoms in face;Of my gauze window blow?
2:相思::Love Seeds:王维:Wang Wei:0::红豆生南国，春来发几枝，愿君多采撷，此物最相思。:Red berries grow in southern land;How many load in spring the trees;Gather them till full is your hand;They would revive fond memories.
2:山中::In The Hills:王维:Wang Wei:3::荆溪白石出，天寒红叶稀，山路元无雨，空翠湿人衣。:White pebbles hear a blue stream glide;Red leaves are strewn on cold hillside；Along the path no rain is seen;My gown is moist with drizzling green.
2:送春辞::Farewell Of Spring:王维:Wang Wei:1::白日人空老，年年春更归，相欢在尊酒，不用惜花飞。:From day to day man will grow old;Enjoy the cup of wine you hold;Don't grieve o'er flowers falling here;They'll come with spring from year to year.
3:秋夜曲::Song Of An Autumn Night:王维:Wang Wei:0::桂魄初生秋露微，轻罗已薄未更衣，银筝夜久殷勤弄，心怯空房不忍归。:Chilled by light autumn dew beneath the crescent moon;She has not changed her dress though her silk robe is thin;Playing all night on silver lute an endless tune;Afraid of empty room, she can't bear to go in.
2:九月九日忆山东兄弟::Thinking Of My Brothers On Mountain-Climbing Day:王维:Wang Wei:0::独在异乡为异客，每逢佳节倍思亲，遥知兄弟登高处，遍插茱萸少一人。:Alone, a lonely stranger in a foreign land;I doubly pine for my kinsfolk on holiday;I know my brothers would, with dogwood spray in hand;Climb up the mountain and miss me so far away.
2:渭城曲::A Farewell Song:王维:Wang Wei:1::渭城朝雨浥轻尘，客舍青青柳色新，劝君更尽一杯酒，西出阳关无故人。:No dust is raised on the road wet with morning rain;The willows by the hotel look so fresh and green;I invite you to drink a cup of wine again;West of the Sunny Pass no more friends will be seen.
2:送沈子福之江东::Seeing A Friend Off To The East:王维:Wang Wei:1::杨柳渡头行客稀，罟师荡桨向临圻，唯有相思似春色，江南江北送君归。:At willow-shaded ferry passengers are few;Into the eastward stream the boatman puts his oars;Only my longing heart looks like the vernal hue;'T would go with you along northern and southern shores.
3:峨眉山月歌::The Moon Over Mount Brow:李白:Lee Bai:3::峨眉山月半轮秋，影入平羌江水流，夜发清溪向三峡，思君不见下渝州。:The crescent moon looks like old Autumn's golden brow;Its deep reflection flows with limpid water blue;I'll leave the town on Clear Stream for three canyons now;O Moon, how I miss you when you are out of view!
1:望庐山瀑布:av36925625?p=1:The Waterfall In Mount Lu Viewed From Afar:李白:Lee Bai:3:This poem is generally believed to have been written by li bai when he first visited mount lushan on his way to jinling around 725 AD .:日照香炉生紫烟，遥看瀑布挂前川，飞流直下三千尺，疑是银河落九天。:The sunlit Censer Peak exhales in censelike cloud;Like an upended stream the cataract sounds loud;Its torrent dashes down three thousand feet from high;As if the Silver River fell from the blue sky.
2:望天门山::Mount Heaven's Gate Viewed From Afar:李白:Lee Bai:3::天门中断楚江开，碧水东流至此回，两岸青山相对出，孤帆一片日边来。:Breaking Mount Heaven's Gate, the great River rolls through;Green billows eastward flow and here turn to the north;From both sides of the River thrust out the cliffs blue;Leaving the sun behind, a lonely sail comes forth.
2:夜下征虏亭::Passing By The Triumphal Tower At Night:李白:Lee Bai:0::船下广陵去，月明征虏亭，山花如绣颊，江火似流萤。:My boat sails down to River Town;The Tower's bright in the moonlight;The flowers blow like cheeks aglow;And lanterns beam as fireflies gleam.
1:静夜思:av36925625?p=21:Thoughts On A Tranquil Night:李白:Lee Bai:0::床前明月光，疑是地上霜，举头望明月，低头思故乡。 :Before my bed a pool of light;Can it be hoar-frost on the ground;Looking up, I find the moon bright;Bowing, in homesickness I'm drowned.
2:黄鹤楼送孟浩然之广陵::Seeing Meng Haoran Off At Yellow Crane Tower:李白:Lee Bai:1::故人西辞黄鹤楼，烟花三月下扬州，孤帆远影碧空尽，唯见长江天际流。 :My friend has left the west where the Yellow Crane towers;For River Town veiled in green willows and red flowers;His lessening sail is lost in the boundless blue sky;Where I see but the endless River rolling by.
2:长门怨::Deserted Beauty In Laurel Bower:李白:Lee Bai:0::桂殿长愁不记春，黄金四屋起秋尘，夜悬明镜青天上，独照长门宫里人。:Does Laurel Bower where grief reigns remember spring?;On the four golden walls the dusts of autumn cling;The night holds up a mirror bright in the blue sky;To show the fair on earth as lonely as on high.
2:戏赠杜甫::Joking With Du Fu:李白:Lee Bai:0::饭颗山头逢杜甫，顶戴笠子日卓午，借问别来太瘦生，总为从前作诗苦。 :On top of Hill of Boiled Rice I met with Du Fu;Who in the noonday sun wore a hat of bamboo;Pray, how could you have grown so thin since we did part?;Is it because the verse-composing wrung your heart?
3:劳劳亭::Pavilion Laolao:李白:Lee Bai:0::天下伤心处，劳劳送客亭，春风知别苦，不遣柳条青。 :There is no place that oftener breaks the heart;Than the pavilion seeing people part;The wind of early spring knows parting grieves;It will not green the roadside willow leaves.
1:苏台览古::The Ruin Of The Wu Palace:李白:Lee Bai:4::旧苑荒台杨柳新，菱歌清唱不胜春，只今惟有西江月，曾照吴王宫里人。 :Deserted garden, crumbling terrace, willows green;Sweet notes of lotus songs cannot revive old spring;All are gone but the moon o'er West River that's seen;The ladies fair who won the favor of the king.
3:越中览古::The Ruin Of The Capital Of Yue:李白:Lee Bai:4::越王勾践破吴归，义士还家尽锦衣，宫女如花满春殿，只今惟有鹧鸪飞。:The king of Yue returned, having destroyed the foe;His loyal men came home, with silken dress aglow;His palace thronged with flower-like ladies fair;Now we see but a frock of partridges flying there.
2:越女词::Song Of The Southern Maiden:李白:Lee Bai:0::镜湖水如月，耶溪女似雪，新妆荡新波，光景两奇绝。:The waves of Mirror Lake look like moonbeam;The maiden's fair as snow on waterside;Her rippling dress vies with the rippling stream;We know not which by which is beautified.
2:山中问答::A Reply:李白:Lee Bai:0::问余何意栖碧山，笑而不答心自闲，桃花流水窅然去，别有天地非人间。 :I dwell among green hills and someone asks me why;My mind carefree, I smile and give him no reply;Peach blossoms fallen on running water pass by;This is an earthly paradise beneath the sky.
2:自遣::Solitude:李白:Lee Bai:0::对酒不觉暝，落花盈我衣，醉起步溪月，鸟还人亦稀。 :I'm drunk with wine;And with moonshine;With flowers fallen o'er the ground;And o'er me the blue-gowned;Sobered, I stroll along the stream;Whose ripples gleam;I see no bird;And hear no word.
2:独坐敬亭山::Sitting Alone In Face Of Peak JingTing:李白:Lee Bai:3::众鸟高飞尽，孤云独去闲，相看两不厌，只有敬亭山。:All birds have flown away, so high;A lonely cloud drifts on, so free;Gazing on Mount Jingting;nor I am tired of him, nor he of me.
2:秋浦歌::My White Hair:李白:Lee Bai:0::白发三千丈，缘愁似个长，不知明镜里，何处得秋霜。 :Long, long is my whitening hair;Long,long is it laden with care;I look into my mirror bright;From where comes autumn frost so white?
1:赠汪伦:av36925625?p=30:To Wang Lun:李白:Lee Bai:1::李白乘舟将欲行，忽闻岸上踏歌声，桃花潭水深千尺，不及汪伦送我情。:I, Li Bai, sit aboard a ship about to go;When suddenly on shore your farewell songs o'erflow;However deep the Lake of Peach Blossoms may be;It's not so deep, O Wang Lun! as your love for me.
2:早发白帝城::Leaving The White Emperor Towm At Dawn:李白:Lee Bai:3::朝辞白帝彩云间，千里江陵一日还，两岸猿声啼不住，轻舟已过万重山。 :Leaving at dawn the White Emper or crowned with cloud;I've sailed a thousand miles through canyons in a day;With monkeys' sad adieus the riverbanks are loud;My skiff has left ten thousand mountains far away.
3:哭宣城善酿纪叟::Elegy On Master Brewer Ji Of XuanCheng:李白:Lee Bai:1::纪叟黄泉里，还应酿老春，夜台无晓日，沽酒与何人？:For thirsty souls are you still brewing;Good wine of Old Spring, Master Ji?;In underworld are you not ruing;To lose a connoisseur like me?
2:长干曲（一）::Songs On The River(I):崔颢:Cui Hao:0::君家何处住，妾住在横塘，停舟暂借问，或恐是同乡。:Where are you coming from?;On the shore I've my home;Will you rest on your oar?;Are we from the same shore?
2:长干曲（二）::Songs On The River(II):崔颢:Cui Hao:0::家临九江水，去来九江侧，同是长干人，生小不相识。 :I dwell by riverside;And sail on river wide;We live on the same shore;Not knowing it before.
2:春怨::A Lover's Dream:金昌绪:Jin Changxu:0::打起黄莺儿，莫教枝上啼，啼时惊妾梦，不得到辽西。:Drive orioles off the tree;Their songs awake poor me;From dreaming of my dear;Far off on the frontier.
2:吴声子夜歌::Waiting In Vain:崔国辅:Cui Guofu:3::净扫黄金阶，飞霜皎如雪，下帘弹箜篌，不忍见秋月。:I sweep the golden steps till they are clean;And then I brush away the frost snow-white;Alone I play my lute, drawing the screen;How can I bear the autumn moon so bright?
2:别董大::Farewell To A Lutist:高适:Gao Shi:1::千里黄云白日曛，北风吹雁雪纷纷，莫愁前路无知己，天下谁人不识君？:Yellow clouds spread for miles and miles have veiled the day;The north wind blows down snow and wild geese fly away;Fear not you've no admirers as you go along;There is no connoisseur on earth but loves your song.
3:逢雪宿芙蓉山主人::Seeking Shelter In Lotus Hill On A Snowy Night:刘长卿:Liu Changqing:0::日暮苍山远，天寒白屋贫，柴门闻犬吠，风雪夜归人。:At sunset hillside village still seems far;Cold and deserted the thatched cottages are;At wicket gate a dog is heard to bark;With wind and snow I come when night is dark.
2:送灵澈上人::Seeking Off A Recluse:刘长卿:Liu Changqing:1::苍苍竹林寺，杳杳钟声晚，荷笠带夕阳，青山独归远。:To the green temple 'mid bamboos;When evening bell rings, a recluse;Goes back alone. While sunset fills;His hat, he's lost in the blue hills.
2:早梅::Early Mume Blossoms:张谓:Zhang Wei:4::一树寒梅白玉条，迥临村路傍溪桥，不知近水花先发，疑是经冬雪未销。:Like belts of white jade the cold-proof mume branches look;Beside the pathway near the bridge over a brook;If you don't know riverside blossoms early blow;You would take them for last winter's unmelted snow.
3:赠李白::To Li Bai:杜甫:Du Fu:1::秋来相顾尚飘蓬，未就丹砂愧葛洪，痛饮狂歌空度日，飞扬跋扈为谁雄？:When autumn comes, you're drifting still like thistledown;You try to find the way to heaven, but you fail;In singing mad and drinking dead your days you drown;For whom will fly the roc? For whom will leap the whale?
3:饮中八仙歌（节选）::Eight Immortal Drinkers(Excerpt):杜甫:Du Fu:0::李白斗酒诗百篇，长安市上酒家眠，天子呼来不上船，自称臣是酒中仙。:Li Bai could turn sweet nectar into verses fine;Drunk in the capital, he'd lie in shops of wine;Even imperial summons proudly he'd decline;Saying immortals could not leave the drink divine.
2:自京赴奉先县咏怀(节选)::On The Wayf From The Capital To FengXian(Excerpt):杜甫:Du Fu:0::朱门酒肉臭，路有冻死骨，荣枯咫尺异，惆怅难再述。:The mansions burst with wine and meat;The poor die frozen on the street;Woe stands within an inch of weal;Distressed, can I tell what I feel?
3:赠花卿::To Deneral Hua:杜甫:Du Fu:1::锦城丝管日纷纷，半入江风半入云，此曲只应天上有，人间能得几回闻？:With songs from day to day the Town of Silk is loud;They waft with winds across the streams into the cloud;Such music can be heard but in celestial spheres;How many times has it been played for human ears?
2:戏为六绝句（选一）::A Playful Quatrain:杜甫:Du Fu:0::王杨卢骆当时体，轻薄为文哂未休，尔曹身与名俱灭，不废江河万古流。:Our four great poets write in a creative way;You shallow critics may make your remarks unfair;But your bodies and souls will fall into decay;While their fame will last as the rivers flow fore'er.
2:绝句(其一)::A Quatrain(I):杜甫:Du Fu:3::江碧鸟逾白，山青花欲燃，今春看又过，何日是归年？:Against blue water birds appear more white;On green mountains red flowers seem to burn;Alas! I see another spring in flight;O when will come the day of my return?
2:绝句(其二)::A Quatrain(II):杜甫:Du Fu:3::两个黄鹂鸣翠柳，一行白鹭上青天，窗含西岭千秋雪，门泊东吴万里船。:Two golden orioles sing amid the willows green;A flock of white egrets flies into the blue sky;My window frames the snow-crowned western mountain scene;My door oft says to eastward-going ships “Goodbye! ”
2:八阵图::The Stone Fortress:杜甫:Du Fu:0::功盖三分国，名成八阵图，江流石不转，遗恨失吞吴。:With his exploits history is crowned;For his Stone Fortress he's renowned;The river flows but stones still stand;Though he'd not taken back lost land.
3:江南逢李龟年::Coming Across A Disfavored Court Musician On The Southern Shore Of The Yangtze River:杜甫:Du Fu:0::岐王宅里寻常见，崔九堂前几度闻，正是江南好风景，落花时节又逢君。:How oft in princely mansions did we meet;As oft in lordly halls I heard you sing;Now the Southern scenery is most sweet;But I meet you again in parting spring.
2:山房春事::Spring In A Deserted Garden:岑参:Cen Shen:1::梁园日暮乱飞鸦，极目萧条三两家，庭树不知人去尽，春来还发旧时花。:What riot do crows run, veiling the setting sun;As far as eyes can see, there're two houses or three;The garden trees don't know all men gone but the crow;In full bloom they appear as when spring came last year.
3:逢入京使::On Meeting A Messenger Going To The Capital:岑参:Cen Shen:3::故园东望路漫漫，双袖龙钟泪不干，马上相逢无纸笔，凭君传语报平安。:I look eastward, long, long my homeward road appears;My old arms tremble and my sleeves are wet with tears;Meeting you on horseback, with what brush can I write;I can but ask you to tell them I am all right.
2:春梦::Spring Dream:岑参:Cen Shen:0::洞房昨夜春风起，遥忆美人湘江水，枕上片时春梦中，行尽江南数千里。:The vernal breeze in inner chamber rose last night;I remembered my fair one was by riverside;An hour on pillow I dreamed of passing in flight;Thousands of miles to Southern shore where she'd abide.
2:春思::Spring Thoughts:贾至:Jia Zhi:3::草色青青柳色黄，桃花历乱李花香，东风不为吹愁去，春日偏能惹恨长。:The yellow willows wave above, green grass below;Peach blooms run riot and plum blossoms fragrant grow;The vernal wind cannot blow my sorrow away;My grief increases with each lengthening spring day.
2:月夜::A Moonlit Night:刘方平:Liu Fangping:0::更深月色半人家，北斗阑干南斗斜，今夜偏知春气暖，虫声新透绿窗纱。:The moon has brightened half the house at dead of night;The slanting Plough and Southern stars shed dying light;I feel the warmth of air exhaled by coming spring;For through my window screen I hear the insects sing.
3:春怨::Loneliness:刘方平:Liu Fangping:0::纱窗日落渐黄昏，金屋无人见泪痕，寂寞空庭春欲晚，梨花满地不开门。:Out of the window wanes twilight of parting day;None sees her dry her furtive tears in gilded hall;In lonely courtyard even spring will pass away;She won't open the door but lets pear blossoms fall.
3:江村即事::Reverie In A Riverside Village:司空曙:Si Kongshu:3::钓罢归来不系船，江村月落正堪眠，纵然一夜风吹去，只在芦花浅水边。:Coming back from fishing, I don't fasten my boat;The moon sinks o'er riverside village — time to sleep;What if the breeze at night should set my skiff afloat;It's still amid the reeds, where water is not deep.
3:别卢秦卿::Farewell To A Friend:司空曙:Si Kongshu:3::知有前期在，难分此夜中，无将故人酒，不及石尤风。:Although I know that we shall meet again;How can we bear to part on such a night;Do you think wine and friendship can't retain;You here longer than an adverse wind might?
2:归雁::To The Returning Wild Geese:钱起:Qian Qi:4::潇湘何事等闲回，水碧沙明两岸苔，二十五弦弹夜月，不胜清怨却飞来。:Wild geese, why don't you stay there anymore;With blue water, bright sand and mossy shore;The moonbeams play on twenty-five sad strings;Can you not bear the grief the zither brings?
2:宫词::A Palace Poem:顾况:Gu Kuang:3::玉楼天半起笙歌，风送宫嫔笑语和，月殿影开闻夜漏，水晶帘卷近秋河。:From the jade bower songs float halfway up the sky;The wind carries the palace maids' gay voices high;The moon is slanting, drips of water-clock are heard;The screen uprolled, the weaver's seen far from the cowherd.
2:枫桥夜泊::Mooring By Maple Bridge At Night:张继:Zhang Ji:0::月落乌啼霜满天，江枫渔火对愁眠，姑苏城外寒山寺，夜半钟声到客船。:At moonset cry the crows, streaking the frosty sky;Dimly lit fishing boats 'neath maples sadly lie;Beyond the city wall, from Temple of Cold Hill;Bells break the ship-borne roamer's dream and midnight still.
2:寒食::Cold Food Day:韩翃:Han Hong:3::春城无处不飞花，寒食东风御柳斜，日暮汉宫传蜡烛，轻烟散入五侯家。:Nowhere in vernal town but sweet flowers fly down;Riverside willow trees slant in the eastern breeze;At dusk the palace sends privilege candles red;To the five lordly mansions where wreaths of smoke spread.
2:秋夜寄丘二十二员外::To A Hermit On An Autumn Night:韦应物:Wei Yingwu:3::怀君属秋夜，散步咏凉天，空山松子落，幽人应未眠。:Strolling when autumn night is still;I think of you and softly sing;As pine cones fall in empty hill;Hermit, you must be listening.
2:滁州西涧::On The West Stream At ChuZhou:韦应物:Wei Yingwu:3::独怜幽草涧边生，上有黄鹂深树鸣，春潮带雨晚来急，野渡无人舟自横。:Alone, I like the riverside where green grass grows;And golden orioles sing amid the leafy trees;When showers fall at dusk, the river overflows;A lonely boat athwart the ferry floats at ease.
2:伤秋::Grief In Autumn:卢纶:Lu Lun:4::岁去人头白，秋来树叶黄，搔头向黄叶，与尔共悲伤。:As years pass by, grey grows my hair;When autumn's come, the trees stand bare;Perplexed, I ask the yellow leaf;"Is your heart like mine gnawed by grief?"
2:塞下曲（一）::Border Songs(I):卢纶:Lu Lun:2::鹫翎金仆姑，燕尾绣蝥弧，独立扬新令，千营共一呼。:His arrow tuft'd with vulture feather;His pennon shaped like swallowtail;He gives an order out, together;A thousand battalions shout, “Hail! ”
1:塞下曲（二）::Border Songs(II):卢纶:Lu Lun:2::林暗草惊风，将军夜引弓，平明寻白羽，没在石棱中。:In gloomy woods grass shivers at wind's howl;The general takes it for a tiger's growl;He shoots and looks for his arrow next morn;Only to find a rock pierced 'mid the thorn.
2:塞下曲（三）::Border Songs(III):卢纶:Lu Lun:2::月黑雁飞高，单于夜遁逃，欲将轻骑逐，大雪满弓刀。:Wild geese fly high in moonless night;The Tartars through the dark take flight;Our horsemen chase them, armed with bow;And sword covered with heavy snow.
2:塞下曲（四）::Border Songs(IV):卢纶:Lu Lun:2::野幕敞琼筵，羌戎贺劳旋，醉和金甲舞，雷鼓动山川。:Let sumptuous banquet in the wild be spread;Let tribesmen give the victors warm welcome;Let's dance in golden armor, drunk and fed;Let mountains tremble at thunderous drum!
3:宫怨::Grief Of A Palace Maid:李益:Li Yi:0::露湿晴花春殿香，月明歌吹在昭阳，似将海水添宫漏，共滴长门一夜长。:Spring palace fragrant with sweet flowers wet with dew;Is ringing with flute songs when the moon's shining bright;The water-clock seems filled up with the ocean blue;To make the night appear for me an endless night.
2:夜上受降城闻笛::On Hearing A Flute At Night Atop The Victor's Wall:李益:Li Yi:2::回乐峰前沙似雪，受降城外月如霜，不知何处吹芦管，一夜征人尽望乡。:Below the beacon tower sand looks white as snow;Beyond the Victor's Wall like frost cold moonbeams flow;None knows from where a flute blows a nostalgic song;All warriors lie awake homesick the whole night long.
2:江南曲::A Southern Song:李益:Li Yi:3::嫁得瞿塘贾，朝朝误妾期，早知潮有信，嫁与弄潮儿。:Since I became a merchant's wife;I've in his absence passed my life;A sailor comes home with the tide;I should have been a sailor's bride.