诗人:简介
Lee Bai:Li bai (701-762), styled taibai, also known as qinglian jushi, also known as 'exiled immortal', was a great romantic poet of the tang dynasty, known as 'poetic immortal' by later generations. According to the new tang book 'records, li bai xing SAN for the emperor (cool Wu Zhaowang Gao lee) ix, sun and Li Tang Wang Tongzong. He is generous, love to drink and write poetry, like to make friends.
Meng Haoran:Meng haoran (born meng hao, AD 689 -- AD 740), styled haoran and styled mengshan, was born in xiangyang, xiangzhou (now xiangyang, hubei).Meng haoran early ambition to use the world, visit chang 'an, should jinshi not first. Once in the imperial school compose poetry, the name move gongqing, a hanfu, for the end. In the 25th year of kaiyuan (737), zhang jiuling invited the shogunate. But his official career is difficult, finally monasticism retreat, once reclusive deer gate mountain. The vast majority of meng's poems are five-character short stories, mainly about the leisure activities of landscape and seclusion as well as the mood of trudging.
Lu Lun:Lu lun (739-799), courtesy name yun yan, was born in pu (now yongji city, Shanxi Province), ancestral home fan Yang (now zhuozhou city, hebei province), is the fourth house of fan Yang lu family north zu, Chinese mid-tang dynasty poet, one of the ten talents. Lu lun had been a jinshi in the last years of emperor xuanzong's reign, but the rebellion between an and shi broke out and he failed to become an official. After the chaos, lu in the tang dynasty in the Dali years of the re-examination, but repeatedly failed. In the sixth year of the great calendar (771), he was recommended by the prime minister yuan zai and wang jin successively, and served as a collection of virtuous bachelor, secretary of the provincial school shulang, and then promoted to the supervisory imperial history. In the eleventh year of the Chinese calendar (776), yuan zai and wang jin were defeated in the political struggle. Was one of the first year of chienchung (780), Ren Zhao should magistrate, zhenyuan period into the river our hun jin, as a calibration of card shark, then future generations with Lou of said. Lu's poems are characterized by vivid images, concise language, extraordinary momentum of frontier fortress poems, and the atmosphere of the tang dynasty, among which the most famous is the song of the next.