诗名:诗名英文:作者名:作者名英文:诗歌种类:中文版:英文版
登鹳雀楼:On The Stork Tower:王之涣:Wang Zhihuan:3:白日依山尽，黄河入海流，欲穷千里目，更上一层楼。:The sun along the mountain bows; The Yellow River seawards flows; You will enjoy a grander sight; If you climb to a greater height.
凉州词:Out Of The Great Wall:王之涣:Wang Zhihuan:3:黄河远上白云间，一片孤城万仞山，羌笛何须怨杨柳，春风不度玉门关。:The Yellow River rises to the white cloud;The lonely town is lost amid the mountains proud;Why should the Mongol flute complain no willows grow;Beyond the Gate of Jade no vernal wind will blow.
春晓:Spring Morning:孟浩然:Meng Haoran:3:春眠不觉晓，处处闻啼鸟，夜来风雨声，花落知多少。:This spring morning in bed I'm lying;Not to awake till birds are crying;After one night of wind and showers;How many are fallen flowers.
宿建德江:Mooring On The River At JianDe:孟浩然:Meng Haoran:3:移舟泊烟渚，日暮客愁新，野旷天低树，江清月近人。:My  boat is moored near an isle in mist grey;I'm grieved anew to see the parting day;On boundless plain trees seem to scrape the sky;In water clear the moon appeals so high.
从军行七首（选二）其四:Army Life(IV):王昌龄:Wang Changling:2:青海长云暗雪山，孤城遥望玉门关，黄沙百战穿金甲，不破楼兰终不还。:Clouds on frontier o'er shadow mountains clad in snow;A lonely town afar faces Pass of Jade Gate;Our golden armor pierced by sand, we fight the foe;We won't come back till we destroy the hostile state.
从军行七首（选二）其五:Army Life(V):王昌龄:Wang Changling:2:大漠风尘日色昏，红旗半卷出辕门，前军夜战洮河北，已报生擒吐谷浑。:The wind and sand in the desert have dimmed sunlight;With red flags half unfurled we go through the camp gate;North of the River Tao, after nocturnal fight;Our vanguards capture the chieftain of hostile state.
出塞:On The Frontier:王昌龄:Wang Changling:2:秦时明月汉时关，万里长征人未还，但使龙城飞将在，不教胡马度阴山。:The moon still shines on mountain passes as of yore;How many guardsmen of the Great Wall are no more;If the flying general were still there in command;No hostile steeds would have dared to invade our land.
西宫秋怨:A Neglected Beauty In The West Palace:王昌龄:Wang Changling:0:芙蓉不及美人妆，水殿风来珠翠香，却恨含情掩秋扇，空悬明月待君王。:The lotus bloom feels shy beside the lady fair;The breeze across the lake takes fragrance from her hair;An autumn fan cannot conceal her hidden love;In vain she waits for her lord with the moon above.
长信秋词:A Disfavored Court Lady In Autumn:王昌龄:Wang Changling:0:奉帚平明金殿开，且将团扇共徘徊，玉颜不及寒鸦色，犹带昭阳日影来。:At dawn she brings her broom to dust the golden halls;She lingers with a fan within the palace walls;Her rosy color envies wintry crows' black one;Oft bathed in favorable light of royal sun.
闺怨:Sorrow Of A Younc Bride In Her Boudoir:王昌龄:Wang Changling:0:闺中少妇不知愁，春日凝妆上翠楼，忽见枝头杨柳色，悔教夫婿觅封侯。:The young bride in her boudoir does not know what grieves;She mounts the tower, gaily dressed, on a spring day;Suddenly seeing by roadside green willow leaves;How she regrets her lord seeking fame far away!
芙蓉楼送辛渐:Farewell To Xin Jian At Lotus Tower:王昌龄:Wang Changling:1:寒雨连江夜入吴，平明送客楚山孤，洛阳亲友如相问，一片冰心在玉壶。:A cold rain mingled with East Stream invades the night;At dawn you leave the Southern hills lonely in haze;If my friends in the North should ask if I'm all right;My heart is free of stain as ice in crystal vase.
终南忘积雪:Snow Atop Southern Mountains:祖咏:Zu Yong:3:终南阴岭秀，积雪浮云端，林表明霁色，城中增暮寒。:How fair the gloomy mountainside;Snow-crowned peaks float above the cloud;The forest bright in sunset dyed;With evening cold the town's o'er flowed.
孟城坳:The City Gate:王维:Wang Wei:3:新家孟城口，古木余衰柳，来者复为谁，空悲昔人有。:I've moved in near the city gate;Where withered willow trees are left;Should another move here too late;Alas! of trees he'd be bereft.
鹿柴:The Deer Enclosure:王维:Wang Wei:3:空山不见人，但闻人语响，返景入深林，复照青苔上。:In pathless hills no man's in sight;But I still hear echoing sound;In gloomy forest peeps no light;But sunbeams slant on mossy ground.
竹里馆:The Bamboo Hut:王维:Wang Wei:0:独坐幽篁里，弹琴复长啸，深林人不知，明月来相照。:Sitting among bamboos alone;I play my lute and croon carefree;In the deep woods where I'm unknown;Only the bright moon peeps at me.
鸟鸣涧:The Dale Of Singing Birds:王维:Wang Wei:4:人闲桂花落，夜静春山空，月出惊山鸟，时鸣春涧中。:Sweet laurel blooms fall unenjoyed;Vague hills dissolve into night void;The moonrise startles birds to sing;Their twitter fills the dale with spring.
山中送别:Parting In The Hills:王维:Wang Wei:1:山中相送罢，日暮掩柴扉，春草明年绿，王孙归不归。:I see off the hills my compeer;At dusk I close my wicket door;When grass turns green in spring next year;Will my friend come with spring once more?
杂诗:Our Native Place:王维:Wang Wei:3:君自故乡来，应知故乡事，来日倚窗前，寒梅著花未？:You come from native place;What happened there you'd know;Did mume blossoms in face;Of my gauze window blow?
相思:Love Seeds:王维:Wang Wei:0:红豆生南国，春来发几枝，愿君多采撷，此物最相思。:Red berries grow in southern land;How many load in spring the trees;Gather them till full is your hand;They would revive fond memories.
山中:In The Hills:王维:Wang Wei:3:荆溪白石出，天寒红叶稀，山路元无雨，空翠湿人衣。:White pebbles hear a blue stream glide;Red leaves are strewn on cold hillside；Along the path no rain is seen;My gown is moist with drizzling green.
送春辞:Farewell Of Spring:王维:Wang Wei:1:白日人空老，年年春更归，相欢在尊酒，不用惜花飞。:From day to day man will grow old;Enjoy the cup of wine you hold;Don't grieve o'er flowers falling here;They'll come with spring from year to year.
秋夜曲:Song Of An AAutumn Night:王维:Wang Wei:0:桂魄初生秋露微，轻罗已薄未更衣，银筝夜久殷勤弄，心怯空房不忍归。:Chilled by light autumn dew beneath the crescent moon;She has not changed her dress though her silk robe is thin;Playing all night on silver lute an endless tune;Afraid of empty room, she can't bear to go in.
九月九日忆山东兄弟:Thinking Of My Brothers On Mountain-Climbing Day:王维:Wang Wei:0:独在异乡为异客，每逢佳节倍思亲，遥知兄弟登高处，遍插茱萸少一人。:Alone, a lonely stranger in a foreign land;I doubly pine for my kinsfolk on holiday;I know my brothers would, with dogwood spray in hand;Climb up the mountain and miss me so far away.
渭城曲:A Farewell Song:王维:Wang Wei:1:渭城朝雨浥轻尘，客舍青青柳色新，劝君更尽一杯酒，西出阳关无故人。:No dust is raised on the road wet with morning rain;The willows by the hotel look so fresh and green;I invite you to drink a cup of wine again;West of the Sunny Pass no more friends will be seen.
送沈子福之江东:Seeing A Friend Off To The East:王维:Wang Wei:1:杨柳渡头行客稀，罟师荡桨向临圻，唯有相思似春色，江南江北送君归。:At willow-shaded ferry passengers are few;Into the eastward stream the boatman puts his oars;Only my longing heart looks like the vernal hue;'T would go with you along northern and southern shores.
峨眉山月歌:The Moon Over Mount Brow:李白:Lee Bai:3:峨眉山月半轮秋，影入平羌江水流，夜发清溪向三峡，思君不见下渝州。:The crescent moon looks like old Autumn's golden brow;Its deep reflection flows with limpid water blue;I'll leave the town on Clear Stream for three canyons now;O Moon, how I miss you when you are out of view!
望庐山瀑布:The Waterfall In Mount Lu Viewed From Afar:李白:Lee Bai:3:日照香炉生紫烟，遥看瀑布挂前川，飞流直下三千尺，疑是银河落九天。:The sunlit Censer Peak exhales in censelike cloud;Like an upended stream the cataract sounds loud;Its torrent dashes down three thousand feet from high;As if the Silver River fell from the blue sky.
望天门山:Mount Heaven's Gate Viewed From Afar:李白:Lee Bai:3:天门中断楚江开，碧水东流至此回，两岸青山相对出，孤帆一片日边来。:Breaking Mount Heaven's Gate, the great River rolls through;Green billows eastward flow and here turn to the north;From both sides of the River thrust out the cliffs blue;Leaving the sun behind, a lonely sail comes forth.
夜下征虏亭:Passing By The Triumphal Tower At Night:李白:Lee Bai:0:船下广陵去，月明征虏亭，山花如绣颊，江火似流萤。:My boat sails down to River Town;The Tower's bright in the moonlight;The flowers blow like cheeks aglow;And lanterns beam as fireflies gleam.
静夜思:Thoughts On A Tranquil Night:李白:Lee Bai:0:床前明月光，疑是地上霜，举头望明月，低头思故乡。 :Before my bed a pool of light;Can it be hoar-frost on the ground;Looking up, I find the moon bright;Bowing, in homesickness I'm drowned.
黄鹤楼送孟浩然之广陵:Seeing Meng Haoran Off At Yellow Crane Tower:李白:Lee Bai:1:故人西辞黄鹤楼，烟花三月下扬州，孤帆远影碧空尽，唯见长江天际流。 :My friend has left the west where the Yellow Crane towers;For River Town veiled in green willows and red flowers;His lessening sail is lost in the boundless blue sky;Where I see but the endless River rolling by.
长门怨:Deserted Beauty In Laurel Bower:李白:Lee Bai:0:桂殿长愁不记春，黄金四屋起秋尘，夜悬明镜青天上，独照长门宫里人。:Does Laurel Bower where grief reigns remember spring?;On the four golden walls the dusts of autumn cling;The night holds up a mirror bright in the blue sky;To show the fair on earth as lonely as on high.
戏赠杜甫:Joking With Du Fu:李白:Lee Bai:0:饭颗山头逢杜甫，顶戴笠子日卓午，借问别来太瘦生，总为从前作诗苦。 :On top of Hill of Boiled Rice I met with Du Fu;Who in the noonday sun wore a hat of bamboo;Pray, how could you have grown so thin since we did part?;Is it because the verse-composing wrung your heart?
劳劳亭:Pavilion Laolao:李白:Lee Bai:0:天下伤心处，劳劳送客亭，春风知别苦，不遣柳条青。 :There is no place that oftener breaks the heart;Than the pavilion seeing people part;The wind of early spring knows parting grieves;It will not green the roadside willow leaves.
苏台览古:The Ruin Of The Wu Palace:李白:Lee Bai:4:旧苑荒台杨柳新，菱歌清唱不胜春，只今惟有西江月，曾照吴王宫里人。 :Deserted garden, crumbling terrace, willows green;Sweet notes of lotus songs cannot revive old spring;All are gone but the moon o'er West River that's seen;The ladies fair who won the favor of the king.
越中览古:The Ruin Of The Capital Of Yue:李白:Lee Bai:4:越王勾践破吴归，义士还家尽锦衣，宫女如花满春殿，只今惟有鹧鸪飞。:The king of Yue returned, having destroyed the foe;His loyal men came home, with silken dress aglow;His palace thronged with flower-like ladies fair;Now we see but a frock of partridges flying there.
越女词:Song Of The Southern Maiden:李白:Lee Bai:0:镜湖水如月，耶溪女似雪，新妆荡新波，光景两奇绝。:The waves of Mirror Lake look like moonbeam;The maiden's fair as snow on waterside;Her rippling dress vies with the rippling stream;We know not which by which is beautified.
山中问答:A Reply:李白:Lee Bai:0:问余何意栖碧山，笑而不答心自闲，桃花流水窅然去，别有天地非人间。 :I dwell among green hills and someone asks me why;My mind carefree, I smile and give him no reply;Peach blossoms fallen on running water pass by;This is an earthly paradise beneath the sky.
自遣:Solitude:李白:Lee Bai:0:对酒不觉暝，落花盈我衣，醉起步溪月，鸟还人亦稀。 :I'm drunk with wine;And with moonshine;With flowers fallen o'er the ground;And o'er me the blue-gowned;Sobered, I stroll along the stream;Whose ripples gleam;I see no bird;And hear no word.
独坐敬亭山:Sitting Alone In Face Of Peak JingTing:李白:Lee Bai:3:众鸟高飞尽，孤云独去闲，相看两不厌，只有敬亭山。:All birds have flown away, so high;A lonely cloud drifts on, so free;Gazing on Mount Jingting;nor I am tired of him, nor he of me.
秋浦歌:My White Hair:李白:Lee Bai:0:白发三千丈，缘愁似个长，不知明镜里，何处得秋霜。 :Long, long is my whitening hair;Long,long is it laden with care;I look into my mirror bright;From where comes autumn frost so white?
赠汪伦:To Wang Lun:李白:Lee Bai:1:李白乘舟将欲行，忽闻岸上踏歌声，桃花潭水深千尺，不及汪伦送我情。:I, Li Bai, sit aboard a ship about to go;When suddenly on shore your farewell songs o'erflow;However deep the Lake of Peach Blossoms may be;It's not so deep, O Wang Lun! as your love for me.
早发白帝城:Leaving The White Emperor Towm At Dawn:李白:Lee Bai:3:朝辞白帝彩云间，千里江陵一日还，两岸猿声啼不住，轻舟已过万重山。 :Leaving at dawn the White Emper or crowned with cloud;I've sailed a thousand miles through canyons in a day;With monkeys' sad adieus the riverbanks are loud;My skiff has left ten thousand mountains far away.
哭宣城善酿纪叟:Elegy On Master Brewer Ji Of XuanCheng:李白:Lee Bai:1:纪叟黄泉里，还应酿老春，夜台无晓日，沽酒与何人？:For thirsty souls are you still brewing;Good wine of Old Spring, Master Ji?;In underworld are you not ruing;To lose a connoisseur like me?
长干曲（一）:Songs On The River(I):崔颢:Cui Hao:0:君家何处住，妾住在横塘，停舟暂借问，或恐是同乡。:Where are you coming from?;On the shore I've my home;Will you rest on your oar?;Are we from the same shore?
长干曲（二）:Songs On The River(II):崔颢:Cui Hao:0:家临九江水，去来九江侧，同是长干人，生小不相识。 :I dwell by riverside;And sail on river wide;We live on the same shore;Not knowing it before.
