诗名:作者名:中文版:英文版
春怨:金昌绪:打起黄莺儿，莫教枝上啼，啼时惊妾梦，不得到辽西。:Drive orioles off the tree;Their songs awake poor me;From dreaming of my dear;Far off on the frontier.
吴声子夜歌:崔国辅:净扫黄金阶，飞霜皎如雪，下帘弹箜篌，不忍见秋月。:I sweep the golden steps till they are clean;And then I brush away the frost snow-white;Alone I play my lute, drawing the screen;How can I bear the autumn moon so bright?
别董大:高适:千里黄云白日曛，北风吹雁雪纷纷，莫愁前路无知己，天下谁人不识君？:Yellow clouds spread for miles and miles have veiled the day;The north wind blows down snow and wild geese fly away;Fear not you've no admirers as you go along;There is no connoisseur on earth but loves your song.
逢雪宿芙蓉山主人:刘长卿:日暮苍山远，天寒白屋贫，柴门闻犬吠，风雪夜归人。:At sunset hillside village still seems far;Cold and deserted the thatched cottages are;At wicket gate a dog is heard to bark;With wind and snow I come when night is dark.
送灵澈上人:刘长卿:苍苍竹林寺，杳杳钟声晚，荷笠带夕阳，青山独归远。:To the green temple 'mid bamboos;When evening bell rings, a recluse;Goes back alone. While sunset fills;His hat, he's lost in the blue hills.
早梅:张谓:一树寒梅白玉条，迥临村路傍溪桥，不知近水花先发，疑是经冬雪未销。:Like belts of white jade the cold-proof mume branches look;Beside the pathway near the bridge over a brook;If you don't know riverside blossoms early blow;You would take them for last winter's unmelted snow.
赠李白:杜甫:秋来相顾尚飘蓬，未就丹砂愧葛洪，痛饮狂歌空度日，飞扬跋扈为谁雄？:When autumn comes, you're drifting still like thistledown;You try to find the way to heaven, but you fail;In singing mad and drinking dead your days you drown;For whom will fly the roc? For whom will leap the whale?
饮中八仙歌（节选）:杜甫:李白斗酒诗百篇，长安市上酒家眠，天子呼来不上船，自称臣是酒中仙。:Li Bai could turn sweet nectar into verses fine;Drunk in the capital, he'd lie in shops of wine;Even imperial summons proudly he'd decline;Saying immortals could not leave the drink divine.
自京赴奉先县咏怀（节选）:杜甫:朱门酒肉臭，路有冻死骨，荣枯咫尺异，惆怅难再述。:The mansions burst with wine and meat;The poor die frozen on the street;Woe stands within an inch of weal;Distressed, can I tell what I feel?
赠花卿:杜甫:锦城丝管日纷纷，半入江风半入云，此曲只应天上有，人间能得几回闻？:With songs from day to day the Town of Silk is loud;They waft with winds across the streams into the cloud;Such music can be heard but in celestial spheres;How many times has it been played for human ears?
戏为六绝句（选一）:杜甫:王杨卢骆当时体，轻薄为文哂未休，尔曹身与名俱灭，不废江河万古流。:Our four great poets write in a creative way;You shallow critics may make your remarks unfair;But your bodies and souls will fall into decay;While their fame will last as the rivers flow fore'er.
绝句(其一):杜甫:江碧鸟逾白，山青花欲燃，今春看又过，何日是归年？:Against blue water birds appear more white;On green mountains red flowers seem to burn;Alas! I see another spring in flight;O when will come the day of my return?
绝句(其二):杜甫:两个黄鹂鸣翠柳，一行白鹭上青天，窗含西岭千秋雪，门泊东吴万里船。:Two golden orioles sing amid the willows green;A flock of white egrets flies into the blue sky;My window frames the snow-crowned western mountain scene;My door oft says to eastward-going ships “Goodbye! ”
八阵图:杜甫:功盖三分国，名成八阵图，江流石不转，遗恨失吞吴。:With his exploits history is crowned;For his Stone Fortress he's renowned;The river flows but stones still stand;Though he'd not taken back lost land.
江南逢李龟年:杜甫:岐王宅里寻常见，崔九堂前几度闻，正是江南好风景，落花时节又逢君。:How oft in princely mansions did we meet;As oft in lordly halls I heard you sing;Now the Southern scenery is most sweet;But I meet you again in parting spring.