诗名:诗名英文:作者名:作者名英文:诗歌种类:中文版:英文版
蝉:To The Cicada:虞世南:Yu Shinan:4:垂緌饮清露，流响出疏桐，居高声自远，非是藉秋风。:Though rising high, you drink but dew; Yet your voice flows from sparse plane trees; Far and wide there's none but hears you; You need no wings of autumn breeze.
咏萤:To The Firefly:虞世南:Yu Shinan:4:的历流光小，飘飖弱翅轻，恐畏无人识，独自暗中明。:Flickering, you shed a green light; Wafting weak wings, you flit in flight; Being afraid to be unknown; In the darkness you gleam alone.
落叶:Falling Leaves:孔绍安:Kong Shaoan:4:早秋惊落叶，飘零似客心，翻飞未肯下，犹言惜故林。:In early autumn I'm sad to see falling leaves; They're dreary like a roamer's heart which their fall grieves; They twist and twirl as if struggling against the breeze; I seem to hear them cry, "We will not leave our trees".
过酒家:The Wineshop:王绩:Wang Ji:0:此日长昏饮，非关养性灵，眼看人尽醉，何忍独为醒。:Drinking wine all day long; I won't keep my mind sane; Seeing the drunken throng; Could I sober remain?
南行别弟:Parting With My Younger Brother:韦承庆:Wei Chengqing:1:澹澹长江水，悠悠远客情，落花相与恨，到地一无声。:The long, long river coolly flows; My parting sorrow endless grows; Our grief is shared by falling blooms; In their silence our sorrow looms.
渡汉江:Crossing River Han:宋之问:Song Zhiwen:0:岭外音书断，经冬复历春，近乡情更怯，不敢问来人。:I longed for news on the frontier; From day to day, from year to year; Now nearing home, timid I grow; I dare not ask what I would know.
咏柳:The Willow:贺知章:He Zhizhang:4:碧玉妆成一树高，万条垂下绿丝绦，不知细叶谁裁出，二月春风似剪刀。:The slender tree is dressed in emerald all about; A thousand branches droop like fringes made of jade; But do you know by whom these slim leaves are cut out; The wind of early spring is sharp as scissor blade.
登幽州台歌:On The Tower At Youzhou:陈子昂:Chen Zi'ang:4:前不见古人，后不见来者，念天地之悠悠，独怆然而涕下！:Where are the great men of the past; And where are those of future years; The sky and earth forever last; Here and now I alone shed tears.
蜀道后期:My Delayed Departure For Home:张说:Zhang Yue:0:客心争日月，来往预期程，秋风不相待，先至洛阳城。:My heart outruns the moon and sun; It makes the journey not begun; The autumn wind won't wait for me; It arrives there where I would be.
自君之出矣:Since My Lord From Me Parted:张九龄:Zhang Jiuling:1:自君之出矣，不复理残机，思君如满月，夜夜减清辉。:Since my lord from me parted; I've left unused my loom; The moon wanes, broken-hearted; To see my growing gloom.
山中留客:To A Guest In The Hills:张旭:Zhang Xu:1:山光物态弄春晖，莫为轻阴便拟归，纵使晴明无雨色，入云深处亦沾衣。:On all things in the hills spring sheds a golden light; Do not go back when some dark rain clouds come in sight; Even on a fine day when the sun's shining bright; Your gown will moisten still in the thick of clouds white.
凉州词:Starting For The Front:王翰:Wang Han:4:葡萄美酒夜光杯，欲饮琵琶马上催，醉卧沙场君莫笑，古来征战几人回？:With wine of grapes the cups of jade would glow at night; Drinking to pipa songs, we are summoned to fight; Don't laugh if we lay drunken on the battleground; How many warriors ever came back safe and sound?
