诗名:诗名英文:作者名:作者名英文:诗歌种类:中文版:英文版
山房春事:Spring In A Deserted Garden:岑参:Cen Shen:1:梁园日暮乱飞鸦，极目萧条三两家，庭树不知人去尽，春来还发旧时花。:What riot do crows run, veiling the setting sun;As far as eyes can see, there're two houses or three;The garden trees don't know all men gone but the crow;In full bloom they appear as when spring came last year.
逢入京使:On Meeting A Messenger Going To The Capital:岑参:Cen Shen:3:故园东望路漫漫，双袖龙钟泪不干，马上相逢无纸笔，凭君传语报平安。:I look eastward, long, long my homeward road appears;My old arms tremble and my sleeves are wet with tears;Meeting you on horseback, with what brush can I write;I can but ask you to tell them I am all right.
春梦:Spring Dream:岑参:Cen Shen:0:洞房昨夜春风起，遥忆美人湘江水，枕上片时春梦中，行尽江南数千里。:The vernal breeze in inner chamber rose last night;I remembered my fair one was by riverside;An hour on pillow I dreamed of passing in flight;Thousands of miles to Southern shore where she'd abide.
春思:Spring Thoughts:贾至:Jia Zhi:3:草色青青柳色黄，桃花历乱李花香，东风不为吹愁去，春日偏能惹恨长。:The yellow willows wave above, green grass below;Peach blooms run riot and plum blossoms fragrant grow;The vernal wind cannot blow my sorrow away;My grief increases with each lengthening spring day.
月夜:A Moonlit Night:刘方平:Liu Fangping:0:更深月色半人家，北斗阑干南斗斜，今夜偏知春气暖，虫声新透绿窗纱。:The moon has brightened half the house at dead of night;The slanting Plough and Southern stars shed dying light;I feel the warmth of air exhaled by coming spring;For through my window screen I hear the insects sing.
春怨:Loneliness:刘方平:Liu Fangping:0:纱窗日落渐黄昏，金屋无人见泪痕，寂寞空庭春欲晚，梨花满地不开门。:Out of the window wanes twilight of parting day;None sees her dry her furtive tears in gilded hall;In lonely courtyard even spring will pass away;She won't open the door but lets pear blossoms fall.
江村即事:Reverie In A Riverside Village:司空曙:Si Kongshu:3:钓罢归来不系船，江村月落正堪眠，纵然一夜风吹去，只在芦花浅水边。:Coming back from fishing, I don't fasten my boat;The moon sinks o'er riverside village — time to sleep;What if the breeze at night should set my skiff afloat;It's still amid the reeds, where water is not deep.
别卢秦卿:Farewell To A Friend:司空曙:Si Kongshu:3:知有前期在，难分此夜中，无将故人酒，不及石尤风。:Although I know that we shall meet again;How can we bear to part on such a night;Do you think wine and friendship can't retain;You here longer than an adverse wind might?
归雁:To The Returning Wild Geese:钱起:Qian Qi:4:潇湘何事等闲回，水碧沙明两岸苔，二十五弦弹夜月，不胜清怨却飞来。:Wild geese, why don't you stay there anymore;With blue water, bright sand and mossy shore;The moonbeams play on twenty-five sad strings;Can you not bear the grief the zither brings?
宫词:A Palace Poem:顾况:Gu Kuang:3:玉楼天半起笙歌，风送宫嫔笑语和，月殿影开闻夜漏，水晶帘卷近秋河。:From the jade bower songs float halfway up the sky;The wind carries the palace maids' gay voices high;The moon is slanting, drips of water-clock are heard;The screen uprolled, the weaver's seen far from the cowherd.
枫桥夜泊:Mooring By Maple Bridge At Night:张继:Zhang Ji:0:月落乌啼霜满天，江枫渔火对愁眠，姑苏城外寒山寺，夜半钟声到客船。:At moonset cry the crows, streaking the frosty sky;Dimly lit fishing boats 'neath maples sadly lie;Beyond the city wall, from Temple of Cold Hill;Bells break the ship-borne roamer's dream and midnight still.
寒食:Cold Food Day:韩翃:Han Hong:3:春城无处不飞花，寒食东风御柳斜，日暮汉宫传蜡烛，轻烟散入五侯家。:Nowhere in vernal town but sweet flowers fly down;Riverside willow trees slant in the eastern breeze;At dusk the palace sends privilege candles red;To the five lordly mansions where wreaths of smoke spread.
秋夜寄丘二十二员外:To A Hermit On An Autumn Night:韦应物:Wei Yingwu:3:怀君属秋夜，散步咏凉天，空山松子落，幽人应未眠。:Strolling when autumn night is still;I think of you and softly sing;As pine cones fall in empty hill;Hermit, you must be listening.
滁州西涧:On The West Stream At ChuZhou:韦应物:Wei Yingwu:3:独怜幽草涧边生，上有黄鹂深树鸣，春潮带雨晚来急，野渡无人舟自横。:Alone, I like the riverside where green grass grows;And golden orioles sing amid the leafy trees;When showers fall at dusk, the river overflows;A lonely boat athwart the ferry floats at ease.
伤秋:Grief In Autumn:卢纶:Lu Lun:4:岁去人头白，秋来树叶黄，搔头向黄叶，与尔共悲伤。:As years pass by, grey grows my hair;When autumn's come, the trees stand bare;Perplexed, I ask the yellow leaf;"Is your heart like mine gnawed by grief?"
塞下曲（一）:Border Songs(FIRST):卢纶:Lu Lun:2:鹫翎金仆姑，燕尾绣蝥弧，独立扬新令，千营共一呼。:His arrow tuft'd with vulture feather;His pennon shaped like swallowtail;He gives an order out, together;A thousand battalions shout, “Hail! ”
塞下曲（二）:Border Songs(SECOND):卢纶:Lu Lun:2:林暗草惊风，将军夜引弓，平明寻白羽，没在石棱中。:In gloomy woods grass shivers at wind's howl;The general takes it for a tiger's growl;He shoots and looks for his arrow next morn;Only to find a rock pierced 'mid the thorn.
塞下曲（三）:Border Songs(THIRD):卢纶:Lu Lun:2:月黑雁飞高，单于夜遁逃，欲将轻骑逐，大雪满弓刀。:Wild geese fly high in moonless night;The Tartars through the dark take flight;Our horsemen chase them, armed with bow;And sword covered with heavy snow.
塞下曲（四）:Border Songs(FOURTH):卢纶:Lu Lun:2:野幕敞琼筵，羌戎贺劳旋，醉和金甲舞，雷鼓动山川。:Let sumptuous banquet in the wild be spread;Let tribesmen give the victors warm welcome;Let's dance in golden armor, drunk and fed;Let mountains tremble at thunderous drum!
宫怨:Grief Of A Palace Maid:李益:Li Yi:0:露湿晴花春殿香，月明歌吹在昭阳，似将海水添宫漏，共滴长门一夜长。:Spring palace fragrant with sweet flowers wet with dew;Is ringing with flute songs when the moon's shining bright;The water-clock seems filled up with the ocean blue;To make the night appear for me an endless night.
夜上受降城闻笛:On Hearing A Flute At Night Atop The Victor's Wall:李益:Li Yi:2:回乐峰前沙似雪，受降城外月如霜，不知何处吹芦管，一夜征人尽望乡。:Below the beacon tower sand looks white as snow;Beyond the Victor's Wall like frost cold moonbeams flow;None knows from where a flute blows a nostalgic song;All warriors lie awake homesick the whole night long.
江南曲:A Southern Song:李益:Li Yi:3:嫁得瞿塘贾，朝朝误妾期，早知潮有信，嫁与弄潮儿。:Since I became a merchant's wife;I've in his absence passed my life;A sailor comes home with the tide;I should have been a sailor's bride.
